#### Beginnings: Unrising Action

The year started off with a one-day trip to Medan. A sit-down interview gig, talking heads style, two persons. It was a cold January, and the sweat didn't run down our shirts. It felt like a good start, easing myself into the rhythms of work again, feeling my fingers on the knobs, and the voices I'm recording hasn't rid itself of meaning. They tend to do that when you listen to them for hours on end, day by day. Voices turn into sound, and your brain separates them to signal and noise. Ignore the signal. The real signal is the noise. That's when you know when something's wrong, and you need to fix it.

We had beef broth noodles in Medan. A big part of the travel part of the job is the food. To eat is to live, and these noodles felt like life itself. Like a health potion. It was rich and creamy, red and soft, and my glasses fogged up but I didn't care that i couldn't see it, i was _in_ it. They had these massive pots that sat on constant fire. Big, simmering pots of meat and all things good with Indonesia.

The hostel we were staying in was situated in the middle of an old Medanese district. It was co-owned by one of the producers on the trip. Early in the year was low season, so we let ourselves in, and effectively owned the place. There were notes on the wall left by travelers; mostly international, from the Anglosphere, barring some Japanese notes spread sparingly throughout the hostel wall. Behind the stone bar there were some books they left along with the notes. Traveler's guides and the like. A glimpse to a recent past where text hadn't earned the hyper-prefix.

The job was at a glass factory, but it looked more like a cathedral. High glass ceilings opening up to a factory floor full of all manner of machineries, all dedicated towards glass. We did the shoot in a showroom, filled on all sides with a spectrum of tinted glasses. And then it was a trip to the new factory-space, still empty, except for crates of building-scale glass, and a single new machine, a CNC glass cutter, its appendage flying across the bed, splitting glass into smaller and smaller pieces.

And just like that, the trip was done. I was flying home, economy class, seats just big enough not to complain about. The flight is never the point; might as well it be a teleportation device. Close your eyes, play the music closest to white noise you can tolerate, and be home again. Ready to start anew.

February was uneventful. A drab month, as far as months go. The only highlight was that I got a job to interview the person my mom's going to vote for come the election. I never got to meet him though, his team cancelled on me three days straight. The first time was a sudden night job, and i took an online cab. It was raining, hard. The kind where the inside of a car sounds like you're inside a metal shed, the kind you'd wish for when you need a reason to take a break from personhood. Maybe that's why he cancelled the interview. Maybe there was no point anymore, for the day before that the pre-polls came in. It was bleak. Maybe he decided that he'd rather stay at home and be his own person, rather than everyone's. I get it; I wouldn't wish that kind of responsibility even upon my worst enemy. I had to cancel the trip midway, in the middle of a highway. Worked out a deal with Mr. Taxi Driver, went back to the studio, took a pic of him with the agreed-on amount transferred on his phone. He was smiling. Maybe these companies take too much of a cut. A middlemen economy can't be good.

March picked up a bit. The regular location jobs, here and there. Worked on a found-footage horror short, something different, something new. I had to think about how to record something that would feel like it was recorded on something else entirely. Conforming to the expectation of an essence, but without the downsides taken quality-side. Intelligible chaos, more like. Decided on on-camera mics that complement the usual suite. I wanted the proximity to be there, every touch on the camera registered with a sound, first-person handling. [You're watching a family video](https://www.labster8.net/wp-content/uploads/2015/08/NickLand-Circuitries.pdf).

Then, the call came. April held for me a trip to Labuan Bajo, a place I haven't been in forever.